# SPARS
Shock Proof Augmented Reality Switches
Shock Proof Augmented Reality Switches(SPARS)     using a Marker Based Approach




	Augmented Reality is a technology enabling humans to view and interact with the world virtually has made a tremendous progress in the field of gaming and entertainment. While IoT is a technology which focuses on smarter communication.In contrast to the popular uses of AR, this project aims at using it in place of physical switches. SPARS – Shock Proof Augmented Reality Switches , uses Virtual Buttons that acts as a replacement for regular switches. Virtual Buttons are simulated buttons or keyboard keys that are displayed on a touchscreen. The project describes a prototype collaborating two technologies - Augmented Reality and Internet of Things while using Vuforia SDK with Unity Package linked with Arduino. The Integration of these three tools has many applications to allow the users to remotely operate devices. Our goal is to virtually enable the Shock-Proof Switches for controlling electronic appliances. The solution relies on the Marker Based Approach where the target image is used to augment the contents, i.e., the platform on which the virtual switches will be displayed. Since the project introduces an Android application that augments control switches for the devices in the real world, the users need not go near the device ,hence preventing a physical contact with the electrical switch. Though the project uses complex technologies, the implementation is very simple. This product when released is sure to hit the market. The customer can be anybody, it can be a nurse controlling medical instruments or a person working in Industries handling heavy weight machinaries. He can also be a person working in nuclear reactors, so that he can avoid contact with the physical switches in such hazardous areas.
